<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter id="details.settings">
<chapterinfo>
  <authorgroup>
    <author>
      <firstname>Roger</firstname>
      <surname>Lum</surname>
	<affiliation>
          <address><email>rogerlum@gmail.com</email></address>
	</affiliation>
    </author>
  </authorgroup>
  <date>2010-03-07</date>
  <releaseinfo>3.97</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>
<title id="details.settings.title">&kappname; Settings</title>

<para>
   The settings described below modify the behaviour of &kappname;. These
   settings can be changed
   through <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
   &kappname;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
</para>

<sect1 id="details.settings.general">
<title id="details.settings.general.title">General</title>

<sect2 id="details.settings.general.global">
<title>Global options</title>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Startup</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Choose the initial view upon startup.</para>
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>Start with <link linkend="firsttime.mainwindow">home
          page</link></para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>Start with last selected page</para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Price Precision</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Enter how many digits of precision your prices will have after the
        decimal point.  For example, setting this to 2 will result in prices
        like 35.18, where setting it to 4 might cause the same price to show
        35.1791</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Autosave periodically</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Check this box if you wish &kappname; to autosave your files
        periodically. The default is 10 minutes.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Your fiscal year starts on</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Enter the starting day and month of your fiscal year</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="details.settings.general.views">
<title>Views options</title>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Synchronize account selection of ledger and investment
      view</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>If this option is selected, selecting an account on the investments
        view will change the account selection on the ledger view, and
        viceversa.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Icon size of navigation bar</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Select the size of the icons of the left-side navigation bar.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Show titlebar on each page</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Whether the title of the current view should be displayed on each
      page.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="details.settings.general.filter">
<title>Filter options</title>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Don't show unused categories</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Hide unused categories.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Don't show closed accounts</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Hide closed accounts.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Show equity accounts</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Equity accounts are normally hidden. Select this option to show
        them.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Don't show finished schedules</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Hide finished schedules.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Don't show transaction prior to</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Hide transactions prior to the selected date.</para>
      <para>Setting this option to January 1, 1900 is a good way to debug
        date-related file import problems.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Don't show reconciled transactions</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Filter transactions by reconciliation state.  Transactions that are
        marked as <emphasis>Reconciled</emphasis> will not be shown.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="details.settings.register">
<title id="details.settings.register.title">Register</title>

<para>
   These options allow you to modify the behaviour of the transaction registers.
</para>

<sect2 id="details.settings.register.display"><title>Display tab</title>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Show a grid in the register</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Show grid lines in the transaction register.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry id="details.settings.register.lens">
    <term><guilabel>Use the ledger lens</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>With this option enabled, the ledger will show all lines of detail
      for the transaction you have currently selected, even if you have set
      the <link linkend="reference.menus.settings.transactiondetail">Show
      Transaction Detail</link> menu option turned off.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
  <term><guilabel>Show transaction form</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Show the <link linkend="details.ledger.transactionform">transaction
        form</link> at the bottom of the transaction register for entering and
        editing transactions.  With this option turned off, you edit the
        transaction within the register itself.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Always show a No. field</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Always have the number (<quote>No.</quote>) field when entering or
      editing a transaction.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Show group header between transactions</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Display group headers in the register</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Show header for the previous and current fiscal
      year </guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Display group headers for the current and the previous fiscal
        year</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="details.settings.register.sorting">
<title>Sorting tab</title>
<sect3 id="details.settings.register.sorting.normal">
<title>Normal view tab</title>

<para>
  Choose the sort order of the ledger while in the Normal view.
</para>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="details.settings.register.sorting.reconciliation">
<title>Reconciliation view tab</title>

<para>
  Choose the sort order of the ledger while in the Reconciliation view.
</para>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="details.settings.register.sorting.search">
<title>Search view tab</title>
<para>
  Choose the sort order of the ledger while in the Search view.
</para>
</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="details.settings.register.dataentry">
<title>Data Entry tab</title>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Insert transaction type into No. field for new
      transactions</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Automatically place the type of the transaction, &eg;., Deposit,
        Withdrawal, etc., in the No. field.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Auto increment check number</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Have the check number automatically increment whenever entering a
        new check transaction.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Keep changes when selecting a different
      transaction/split</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>When enabled, selecting a different transaction or split will save
        edits to the current transaction.</para>
      <para>When disabled, selecting a different transaction will cancel them.
        Instead, you must explicitly accept the changes.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Use Enter to move between fields</guilabel></term>
    <listitem><para>When enabled, pressing Enter will change the focus to the
      next field of the transaction form.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Match names from start</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Mark this option if you always want to match names &eg;, for payees
        from the start. If unset, any substring is matched</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Default reconciliation state</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Select the default reconciliation state for new
        transactions.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Auto fill with previous transaction data</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Select the desired behavior for autofill or deactivate it</para>
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>No Autofill</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Same transaction if amount differs less than X percent</para>
          <para>When entering a new transaction with this option, &kappname;
            will display a list of previous transaction for the payee and
            account. If previous transactions differ in less than X percent,
            they will be considered identical. If the percentage is 0, all
            previous transactions for the payee and account will be
            displayed. When selecting a transaction, all transactions details
            except the date will be autofilled with those of the selected
            transaction.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>With previously most often used transaction for the payee</para>
          <para>When entering a new transaction with this option enabled,
            &kappname; will fill in all the transaction details based on the
            previously most often used transaction with the selected
            payee.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="details.settings.register.import">
<title>Import tab</title>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Match transaction within days</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Search for matching transactions within the range of the imported
        transaction +/- given days</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Ask for a new payee's default category</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Whenever a new payee is detected during an import, the user will be
        asked for the default category for the payee.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="details.settings.home">
<title id="details.settings.home.title">Home</title>

<para>
  These options allow you to customize the appearance of the Home page by
  choosing which entries to show on the Home page and the order in which they
  appear.
</para>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Payments</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>It shows the first 5 occurrences of your scheduled
        transactions</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Preferred accounts</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>It shows the balance and credit of your favorite accounts</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Payment accounts</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>It shows the balance of your asset and liability accounts, except
        for the investment accounts</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Favorite Reports</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>It shows a list of your favorite reports</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Forecast</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>It shows a forecast for your asset and liability Accounts</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Networth forecast</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>It shows a chart of your forecast net worth for the next 90
        days</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Assets and Liabilities</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>It shows the balance of all your assets and liabilities</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Budget</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>It shows the budget items for the current month which have a
      negative difference compared to the actual income or expense</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>CashFlow</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>It shows an analysis of your cash flow for the current month</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Percentage of default font size</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Select the size of the font on the Home page</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Remember font size when leaving the program if manually
      changed with mouse-wheel</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Selecting this will save your font size preference if you have
        changed it from the Home page by using the mouse-wheel</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Show account limit information</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Shows the limit of the accounts on the Payment Accounts and
      Preferred Accounts sections of the Home page</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="details.settings.schedules">
<title id="details.settings.schedules.title">Schedules</title>

<para>
  These options allow you to modify the behaviour of
  the <link linkend="details.schedules">scheduling features</link>.
</para>

<sect2 id="details.settings.schedules.startupoptions">
<title>Schedule startup options</title>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Check schedules upon startup</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Enables checking the schedule upon startup of &kappname;.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Enter transactions this number of days in
      advance</guilabel></term>
    <listitem><para>Specify how many days in advance should the scheduled
      transactions be entered.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Number of days to preview schedules in ledger</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Specify how many days should the schedules show up in the
        ledger.</para>
      <para>The scheduled transactions will be listed in the ledger. You can
        enter or skip the scheduled transactions by right-clicking on
        them.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="details.settings.encryption">
<title id="details.settings.encryption.title">Encryption</title>

<para>
   These options allow you to modify the data encryption settings.
</para>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Use GPG</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Enables the use of GPG to encrypt data file.  See the section
        on <link linkend="details.formats.encrypted">GPG Encryption</link> for
        more details.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<sect2 id="details.settings.encryption.gpgencryption">
<title>GPG Encryption</title>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Your key</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Enter the email address or the hexadecimal key id to use for data
        encryption.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Additional keys</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Select additional keys to use for data encryption.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Also encrypt with kmymoney-recover key</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Encrypts data with the &kappname; recover key.  Selecting this
        option will allow core &kappname; developers to decrypt your data file
        in case you lose your encryption key.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="details.settings.colors">
<title id="details.settings.colors.title">Colours</title>

<para>
   These options allow you to change colors within &kappname;.
</para>

<sect2 id="details.settings.colors.foreground">
<title>Foreground tab</title>

<para>
  Modify the foreground colors by clicking on the color button and opening a
  color select palette.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="details.settings.colors.background">
<title>Background tab</title>

<para>
  Modify the background colors by clicking on the color button and opening a
  color select palette.
</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="details.settings.fonts">
<title id="details.settings.fonts.title">Fonts</title>

<para>
  These options allow you to modify the fonts.
</para>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Use system fonts</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Select this to use system fonts. Deselecting this option allows you
        to customize fonts.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Cell font</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Specify the custom font to use within each cell.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Header font</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Specify the custom font to use for the headers of each view.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="details.settings.onlinequote">
<title id="details.settings.onlinequote.title">Online Quotes</title>

<para>
  These settings modify how online quotes are retrieved from different online
  sources.
</para>

<para>
  This tab allows you to change the online quote sources for &kappname;.
  Generally speaking, this is an advanced feature, and should only be attempted
  by the most technically adept users.
</para>

<para>
  For more details, please refer to the <link linkend="details.investments.onlinequotes">Online Price
  Quotes</link> section.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="details.settings.forecast">
<title id="details.settings.forecast.title">Forecast</title>

<para>
  These options allow you to modify how the forecast is calculated.
</para>

<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Number of days to forecast</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Select how many days you want to forecast. The default is 90
        days</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Number of days of account cycle</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>The normal number of days that your commonly-used accounts go
        through an income-expense cycle. For example, if you receive your salary
        on a monthly basis, you should select 30 days here.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Day of month to start forecast</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Select the day of the month when you want to start the
        forecast. This would usually be the day when you receive your salary or
        other income.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Forecast Method</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>The forecast method to be used.</para>
      <para>Scheduled and future transaction forecasts your balance based on the
        information of your scheduled and future transactions.</para>
      <para>History-based uses your past transactions to extrapolate a
        forecast.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>Number of cycles to use in forecast</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>If using a history-based method, how many previous account cycles
        should &kappname; use to calculate the forecast.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>

  <varlistentry>
    <term><guilabel>History forecast method</guilabel></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Select the method to use when calculating a forecast based on
        historic information</para>
      <para>Simple moving average averages your past transactions to calculate a
        forecast.</para>
      <para>Weighted moving average averages your past transactions, but it will
        give more importance to the most recent transactions.</para>
      <para>Linear regression uses a linear-regression formula based on your
        past transactions to calculate the forecast</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="details.settings.plugins">
<title id="details.settings.plugins.title">Plugins</title>

<para>
  These options allow you to modify the behavior of any installed
  plugins. Currently, the only choice is to enable or disable the &kappname;
  plugins you have installed.
</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>
