<sect1 id="details.impexp.woob">
<sect1info>
  <author>&Dawid.Wrobel; &Dawid.Wrobel.mail;</author>
</sect1info>
<title>Woob Importer</title>

<sect2><title>What is Woob?</title>
<para>
  <acronym><ulink url="https://woob.tech/">Woob</ulink></acronym>, or <quote>Web
  outside of browsers</quote> is <quote>a collection of applications able to interact
  with websites, without requiring the user to open them in a browser.</quote> One of
  <ulink url="https://woob.tech/applications/">such applications</ulink> allows
  specifically to interact with <ulink
  url="https://woob.tech/applications/bank">financial
  institutions</ulink>. &kmymoney; provides a plugin that employs it directly,
  therefore allowing to import transactions from those banks and institutions which
  otherwise do not offer support for any other financial protocol that &kmymoney;
  handles.
</para>
</sect2>
  
<sect2><title>Installing Woob</title>
<note>
  <para>
    &kmymoney; currently requires that you install Woob independently.  See below for
    details.
  </para>
</note>

<para>
  Some &Linux; distributions package Woob, and that is the preferred method of
  installation, if it is available.  If not, you need to install a recent version of
  Python 3 first before continuing.  All major &Linux; distributions package Python,
  and you should use that version, if possible.  Otherwise, you can download a
  package for your system from the <ulink
  url="https://www.python.org/downloads/">official Python website</ulink>.  The exact
  minimum version of Python required by Woob can be found on the <ulink
  url="https://woob.tech/install/">Woob website</ulink>.
</para>

<para>
  With Python 3 installed, you should now be able to easily download and install the
  required Woob modules.  Please refer to the instructions on the Woob website.  When
  &kmymoney; runs, it checks for the presence of Woob, and loads the plugin if Woob
  is found.  See the <link linkend="details.settings.plugins">Plugins</link> section
  in the <link linkend="details.settings">Settings</link> chapter for more
  information on confirming that the woob plugin is loaded.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2><title>Using Woob</title>
<para>
  If Woob is installed, and the &kmymoney; woob plugin is loaded, you should be able
  to set it up for use with an account by invoking the <menuchoice>
  <guimenu>Account</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Map to online account...</guimenuitem>
  </menuchoice> menu item.  Once that is done, the <menuchoice>
  <guimenu>Account</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Update account...</guimenuitem>
  </menuchoice> menu item will download transactions for that account using Woob.
</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>
