<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY kmymoney "<application>KMyMoney</application>">
<!ENTITY kappname "&kmymoney;">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>

<author>
  <firstname>Michael</firstname><othername>T.</othername><surname>Edwardes</surname>
  <contrib>Original concept, much initial source code.  Project administration</contrib>
  <email>mte@users.sourceforge.net</email>
</author>

<author>
  <firstname>Thomas</firstname><surname>Baumgart</surname>
  <contrib>Release manager and de-facto Maintainer.  Core engine.  Project administration</contrib>
  <email>ipwizard@users.sourceforge.net</email>
</author>

<author>
  <firstname>Tony</firstname><surname>Bloomfield</surname>
  <contrib>GnuCash Importer.  Database support.</contrib>
  <email>tonybloom@users.sourceforge.net</email>
</author>

<author>
  <firstname>Robert</firstname><surname>Wadley</surname>
  <contrib>Artist.  Icons, splash screen, home view.  Screenshots.</contrib>
  <email>robntina@users.sourceforge.net</email>
</author>

<author>
  <firstname>Alvaro</firstname><surname>Soliverez</surname>
  <contrib>Forecast.  Reports.</contrib>
  <email>asoliverez@users.sourceforge.net</email>
</author>

<author>
  <firstname>Fernando</firstname><surname>Vilas</surname>
  <contrib>Database support.</contrib>
  <email>fvilas@users.sourceforge.net</email>
</author>

<author>
  <firstname>Cristian</firstname><surname>Oneț</surname>
  <contrib>Patches and plugins.</contrib>
  <email>onet.cristian@gmail.com</email>
</author>

<author>
  <firstname>Jack</firstname><othername>H.</othername><surname>Ostroff</surname>
  <contrib>Documentation.</contrib>
  <email>ostroffjh@users.sourceforge.net</email>
</author>

<author>
  <firstname>Felix</firstname><surname>Rodriguez</surname>
  <contrib>Project administration, previous versions.</contrib>
  <email>frodriguez@users.sourceforge.net</email>
</author>

<author>
  <firstname>Kevin</firstname><surname>Tambascio</surname>
  <contrib>Initial investment support.</contrib>
  <email>ktambascio@users.sourceforge.net</email>
</author>

<!-- This person was previously listed as an author here, but is not currently
     included in credits.docbook.  He should either be dropped from here or
     included there.

    <author><firstname>Arni</firstname><surname>Ingimundarson</surname>
    <contrib>Developer, previous versions.</contrib>
    <email>arniing@users.sourceforge.net</email></author>

    These persons were not previously listed as authors here, but are included
    in credits.docbook.  They should either be dropped from there or included
    here.

    <author><firstname>Ace</firstname><surname>Jones</surname>
    <contrib>Reports.  OFX Import.  Online Quotes.  Documentatation.  Previous versions.</contrib>
    <email>acejones@users.sourceforge.net</email></author>

    <author><firstname>John</firstname><surname>C</surname>
    <contrib>Developer, previous versions.</contrib>
    <email>tacoturtle@users.sourceforge.net</email></author>

    There are eight additional people in credits.docbook for "Special Thanks."
    Should any of them be included here?  -->
</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>kmymoney</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo class="source">&kmymoney;</refmiscinfo>
<refmiscinfo class="manual">Executable programs</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>kmymoney</command></refname>
<refpurpose>the personal finances manager for &kde;</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kmymoney</command>

<group><option>Generic Options</option></group>
<group><option>Qt Options</option></group>
<group><option>KDE Options</option></group>
<group><option>Options</option></group>
<group><option>File</option></group>

</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>

<para>&kmymoney; is the Personal Finance Manager for the &kde; environment.  It
provides the functions required to balance your checkbooks, manage your personal
loans and categories your incomes and expenses using a checkbook style graphical
user interface.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Options</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><replaceable>File</replaceable></term>
<listitem>
<para>
file to open
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-n</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Start without opening a file
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--timers</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Enable performance timers
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--nocatch</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Do not globally catch uncaught exceptions
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--trace</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Turn on program traces. This option is only available when &kmymoney; is compiled in debug mode.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--dump-actions</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Dump the names of all defined KAction objects to stdout and quit. This option is only available when &kmymoney; is compiled in debug mode.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--help</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Show help about options
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--help-qt</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Show Qt specific options
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--help-kde</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Show KDE specific options
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--help-all</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Show all options
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--author</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Show author information
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-v, --version</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Show version information
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--license</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Show license information
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Environment</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>KDE_LANG</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>Language locale setting to use. This option makes it possible to set
another language environment for a program than what is the default. The correct
language pack for this language has to be installed for this option to work. The
default language when there is none set is en_US. When deciding upon a language,
the following resources are looked up, in order: <envar>KDE_LANG</envar>,
configuration file, <envar>LC_CTYPE</envar>, <envar>LC_MESSAGES</envar>,
<envar>LC_ALL</envar>, <envar>LANG</envar>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>KDE_UTF8_FILENAMES</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>Assume that all filenames are in UTF-8 format regardless of the current
language setting. Otherwise the filename format is defined by the
language.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>KDE_MULTIHEAD</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>If this variable has the value true multihead multiple display mode is
enabled.  The KDE display will be shared over more than one screen.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>DISPLAY</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies the X display to run KDE on.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>SESSION_MANAGER</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>The session manager to use. This option is set automatically by KDE and is
a network path to the session manager socket.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>HOME</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>Path to the home directory for the current user.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>KDEHOME</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>The KDE per-user setting directory.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>

<para>The full documentation for &kmymoney; is maintained as a docbook manual.
If the &khelpcenter; program is properly installed at your site, the command
<userinput><command>khelpcenter</command>
<parameter>help:/kmymoney</parameter></userinput> should give you access to the
complete manual.  Alternatively the manual can be browsed in &konqueror; giving
it the <acronym>URL</acronym> <ulink
url="help:/kmymoney">help:/kmymoney</ulink></para>

</refsect1>

</refentry>
