<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter id="whatsnew">
<chapterinfo>
  <date>2019-04-04</date>
  <releaseinfo>5.0.4</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>
<title>What's new in this release</title>

<sect1>
<title>Bug fixes and enhancements to functionality</title>

<para>
  As with every release, the &kmymoney; development team has been working hard to
  make this release better and easier to use in every way.  This is the fourth
  release in the 5.0 series, and most of the activity has been directed to fixing
  bugs.
</para>

<para>
  At this point, the conversion to using &kde-frameworks; is essentially complete,
  although that and the work to update many of the underlying libraries used by the
  application are behind the scenes and not directly visible to the end user.  The
  general look and feel should be stable, although some minor changes may still
  occur.  The basic functionality of the program also remains the same, aside from
  intentional improvements and additions.
</para>

<para>
  In past releases, this page of the manual has included a list of many of the
  specific bug fixes and functional enhancements.
  However, rather than duplicating that information, you can find it directly in the
  <ulink url="https://kmymoney.org/changelog.html">Changelog</ulink>.
</para>

<para>
  Since the release of 5.0, there have been some changes which will need adjustments
  on the user's side if you are upgrading from 4.8.x or an older version.
</para>

<itemizedlist>
  <listitem><para>
    The program searches for the templates for the printcheck plugin
    in different locations.  The user needs to account for this in the plugins
    setting dialog, <link linkend="details.settings.plugins">see this section for
    more details</link>.
  </para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1>
<title>Updates to this Handbook</title>

<para>
  While we continue to make progress, there are still chapters of this handbook which
  have not been updated to reflect all changes in the program which are visible to
  the user as of 5.0.  Each chapter does identify the release of &kmymoney; for which
  it was last updated, but we present the complete list here, as a quick reference.
</para>

<para>
  However, please note that extent to which the chapters which have not been
  explicitly updated do or do not reflect the current operation of the program
  depends on how much that area of the program has changed between the 4.8 and the
  5.0 releases.  
</para>
  
<informaltable frame="none">
  <tgroup cols="2">
    <thead>
      <row>
	<entry><para>Chapters updated for 5.x</para></entry>
	<entry><para>Chapters not yet updated for 5.x</para></entry>
      </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <row>
	<entry valign="top">
	  <simplelist>
	    <member><link linkend="introduction">Introduction</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="whatsnew">What's new in this release</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="makingmostof">Making the most of &kmymoney;</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="firsttime">Using &kmymoney; for the first time</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.institutions">Institutions</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.accounts">Accounts</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.categories">Categories</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.tags">Tags</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.payees">Payees</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.schedules">Schedules</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.ledgers">Ledgers</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.investments">Investments</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.currencies">Currencies</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.reconcile">Reconciliation</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.impexp">Importing and Exporting</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.settings">Settings</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="reference.menus">Reference: Menus</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="credits">Credits</link></member>
	  </simplelist>
	</entry>
	<entry valign="top">
	  <simplelist>
	    <member><link linkend="details.reports">Reports</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.loans">Loans</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.budgets">Budgets</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.forecast">Forecast</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.search">Search Transactions</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.formats">File Formats</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="details.database">Database</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="faq">Questions and Answers</link></member>
	    <member><link linkend="reference.widgets">Reference: Widgets</link></member>
	  </simplelist>
	</entry>
      </row>
    </tbody>
  </tgroup>
</informaltable>
<para>

</para>
</sect1>

  
</chapter>
