.lf 1 ../info/kmymoney2.kmymoney2.1
.TH KMYMONEY2 "1" "May 2003" "KDE" "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
KMyMoney \- the personal finances manager for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kmymoney2
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIFile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B KMyMoney
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.B KMyMoney
is the Personal Finance Manager for the KDE environment.
It provides the functions required to balance your checkbooks,
manage your personal loans and categorise your incomes and
expenses using a checkbook style graphical user interface.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
File
file to open
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.lf 1 ../../info//kdeqtoptions
.SS "KDE options"
.TP 12
.BI \-\-caption \ caption
Use \fIcaption\fP as name in the titlebar.
.TP
.BI \-\-icon \ icon
Use \fIicon\fP as the application icon. \fIicon\fP is the name of the
icon, which can either be an absolute filename path, or otherwise the
icon is sought for in places according to the normal KDE rules.
.TP
.BI \-\-miniicon \ icon
Use \fIicon\fP as the icon in the titlebar. \fIicon\fP is the filename
of the icon, according to the same rules as for the \-\-icon parameter.
.TP
.BI \-\-config \ filename
Use an alternative configuration file, instead of the default, which
is normally located in
.I /usr/share/config
or in
.RB $ KDEHOME\fI/share/config
.TP
.BI \-\-dcopserver \ server
Set the address of the DCOP server to attach to.
.TP
.B \-\-nocrashhandler
Disable crash handler, to get core dumps. This option has the same
effect as definiting the environment variable KDE_DEBUG.
.TP
.B \-\-waitforwm
Waits for a WM_NET compatible windowmanager.
.TP
.BI \-\-style \ style
sets the application GUI style.
.TP
.BI \-\-geometry \ geometry
sets the client geometry of the main widget.
The geometry parameter follows the normal X convention for geometry,
which is on the form:
.RS
.IP
[\fIwidth\fBx\fIheight\fR][{\fB+-\fR}\fIxpos\fR{\fB+-\fR}\fIypos\fR]
.P
Where \fIwidth\fR and \fIheight\fR gives the desired minimum width and
height, of the main application window. Both in pixels. A value of 0
specifies the default size. The optional \fIxpos\fR and \fIypos\fR
specifies the x,y-position that which is desired for the application
window. Specifying negative values for x or y implies that the x or y
position is to be measured from the left or bottom screen edge,
instead of as in the normal case, with positive values, from the left
and top edges. 
.RE
.SS "Qt options"
.TP 12
.BI \-\-display \ displayname
Use the X-server display \fIdisplayname\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-session \ sessionId
Restore the application for the given \fIsessionId\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-cmap
Causes the application to install a private color
map on an 8-bit display.
.TP
.BI \-\-ncols \ count
Limits the number of colors allocated in the color
cube on an 8-bit display, if the application is
using the QApplication::ManyColor color
specification.
.TP
.B \-\-nograb
Tells Qt to never grab the mouse or the keyboard.
.TP
.B \-\-dograb
Running under a debugger can cause an implicit
.B \-nograb\fR, use \fB\-dograb\fR to override.
.TP
.B \-\-sync
switches to synchronous mode for debugging.
.TP
.BI "\-\-fn\fR, \fP\-\-font" \ fontname
Defines the default application font. The \fIfontname\fP should be in
the X logical font name description format XLFD. For a full description of
the format see
.I /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/doc/xlfd.TXT
Note that the application might override the font specified with
its own font.
.TP
.BI "-\-bg\fR, \fB\-\-background"  \ color
Sets the default background color and an
application palette (light and dark shades are
calculated).
.TP
.BI "\-\-fg\fR, \fB\-\-foreground"  \ color
Sets the default foreground color.
.TP
.BI \-\-btn\fR, \fB\-\-button \ color
Sets the default button color.
.TP
.BI \-\-name \ name
Sets the application name.
.TP
.BI \-\-title \ title
Sets the application title. This option might, or might not appear
in the title bar caption, depending on the application. To change the caption, use the 
.B \-\-caption
option instead. 
.TP
.B \-\-visual TrueColor
Forces the application to use a TrueColor visual on
an 8-bit display.
.TP
.BI \-\-inputstyle \ inputstyle
Sets XIM (X Input Method) input style. Possible
values are 
.BR onthespot ", " overthespot ", " offthespot and root .
.TP
.BI \-\-im " XIM-server"
Set XIM server.
.TP
.B \-\-noxim
Disable XIM.
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
Mirror reverses the whole layout of widgets. This means that menus
will go in the opposite direction, the scroll bar will be on the
opposite side, etc. For a normal western layout that means that menus
and tool bars will go from the right edge to the left, the vertical
scroll bar will be on the left side and so on.

.lf 48 ../info/kmymoney2.kmymoney2.1
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.lf 1 ../../info//kdeenviron
.SS "standard KDE environment variables"
.IP KDE_LANG
Language locale setting to use. This option makes it possible to set
another language environment for a program than what is the default. The
correct language pack for this language has to be installed for this option
to work. The default language when there is none set is en_US. When
deciding upon a language, the following resources are looked up, in
order: KDE_LANG, configuration file, LC_CTYPE, LC_MESSAGES, LC_ALL,
LANG.
.IP KDE_UTF8_FILENAMES
Assume that all filenames are in UTF-8 format regardless of the
current language setting. Otherwise the filename format is defined by
the language.
.IP KDE_MULTIHEAD
If this variable has the value
.B true
multihead multiple display mode is enabled. The KDE display will be
shared over more than one screen.
.IP DISPLAY
Specifies the X display to run KDE on.
.IP KDESYCOCA
Specifies and alternative path for the 
.I ksycoca
KDE system configuration cache file.
The default path is
/tmp/kde-$USER/ksycoca
.IP DCOPSERVER
Specifies an alternative path for the DCOP server file. The default
file is
$HOME/.DCOPserver_\fIhostname\fP_\fIdisplayname\fP
.IP SESSION_MANAGER
The session manager to use. This option is set automatically by KDE
and is a network path to the session manager socket.
.IP HOME
Path to the home directory for the current user. 
.IP KDEHOME
The KDE per-user setting directory. Default if not specified is
.I $HOME/.kde
.lf 50 ../info/kmymoney2.kmymoney2.1
.SH AUTHOR
.B KMyMoney
was written by
.PP
.nh
.ad l
Michael Edwardes <mte@users.sourceforge.net>,
.br
Felix Rodriguez <frodriguez@users.sourceforge.net>,
.br
John C <tacoturtle@users.sourceforge.net>,
.br
Thomas Baumgart <ipwizard@users.sourceforge.net>,
.br
Kevin Tambascio <ktambascio@users.sourceforge.net> and
.br
Arni Ingimundarson <arniing@users.sourceforge.net>.
.PP
.hy
Please use 
.IP
.nh
.B http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=4708
.hy
.PP
to report bugs and post support or feature requests. 
.br
.B Do not mail the authors directly.
.PP
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
.ad l
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others) and
has been enhanced by 
.nh
.ad l
Thomas Baumgart <ipwizard@users.sourceforge.net>
.hy
to reflect the latest changes in development.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B KMyMoney
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kmymoney2
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.P
Alternatively the manual can be browsed in
.B konqueror
giving it the URL 
.B help:/kmymoney2
