<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter id="whatsnew">
<chapterinfo>
  <date
>2019-04-04</date>
  <releaseinfo
>5.0.4</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>
<title
>Vad är nytt i den här utgåvan</title>

<sect1>
<title
>Felrättningar och förbättringar av funktionalitet</title>

<para
>As with every release, the &kmymoney; development team continues to work hard to make each version better and easier to use in every way. This is the third release in the 5.1 series, and most of the activity has been directed to fixing bugs. </para>

<para
>As of 5.1, the conversion to using &kde; frameworks is essentially complete, although that and the work to update many of the underlying libraries used by the application are behind the scenes and not directly visible to the end user. The general look and feel should be stable, although some minor changes may still occur. The basic functionality of the program also remains the same, aside from intentional improvements and additions. </para>

<para
>I tidigare utgåvor har den här sidan i handboken inkluderat en lista med många av de specifika felrättningarna och funktionsförbättringarna. Istället för att duplicera informationen, hittar du den direkt i <ulink url="https://kmymoney.org/changelog.html"
>versionsfakta</ulink
>. </para>

<para
>Since the release of 5.0, there have been some changes which will need adjustments on the user's side if you are upgrading from 4.8.x or an older version. However, we expect that most users have converted to 5.x by now. </para>

<itemizedlist>
  <listitem
><para
>For some time now, the program searches for the templates for the printcheck plugin in different locations than previously. If this is still an issue for you, you need to account for this in the plugins setting dialog, <link linkend="details.settings.plugins"
>see this section for more details</link
>. </para
></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1>
<title
>Uppdateringar av den här handboken</title>

<para
>Medan vi håller på, finns fortfarande kapitel i handboken som inte har uppdaterats för att motsvara ändringarna i programmet som är synliga för användaren från 5.0. Varje kapitel identifierar den utgåva av &kmymoney; då det senast uppdaterades, men vi presenterar en fullständig lista här som snabbreferens. </para>

<para
>However, please note that extent to which the chapters which have not been explicitly updated do or do not reflect the current operation of the program depends on how much that area of the program has changed between the 4.8 and the 5.0 and 5.1 releases. </para>
  
<informaltable frame="none">
  <tgroup cols="2">
    <thead>
      <row>
	<entry
><para
>Kapitel som uppdaterats för 5.x</para
></entry>
	<entry
><para
>Kapitel som ännu inte uppdaterats för 5.x</para
></entry>
      </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <row>
	<entry valign="top">
	  <simplelist>
	    <member
><link linkend="introduction"
>Inledning</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="whatsnew"
>Vad är nytt i den här utgåvan</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="makingmostof"
>Få ut så mycket som möjligt av &kmymoney;</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="firsttime"
>Använda &kmymoney; för första gången</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.institutions"
>Institutioner</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.accounts"
>Konton</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.categories"
>Kategorier</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.tags"
>Etiketter</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.payees"
>Betalningsmottagare</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.reconcile"
>Scheman</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.ledgers"
>Huvudböcker</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.investments"
>Investeringar</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.settings"
>Inställningar</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="faq"
>Frågor och svar</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="reference.menus"
>Referens: Menyer</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="credits"
>Tack till</link
></member>
	  </simplelist>
	</entry>
	<entry valign="top">
	  <simplelist>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.currencies"
>Valutor</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.reconcile"
>Avstämning</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.reports"
>Rapporter</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.impexp"
>Import och export</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.loans"
>Lån</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.budgets"
>Budget</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.forecast"
>Prognoser</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.search"
>Sök transaktioner</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.formats"
>Filformat</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="details.database"
>Databas</link
></member>
	    <member
><link linkend="reference.widgets"
>Referens: Grafiska komponenter</link
></member>
	  </simplelist>
	</entry>
      </row>
    </tbody>
  </tgroup>
</informaltable>
 
</sect1>

  
</chapter>
