<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
 <!ENTITY kappname "KMyMoney">
 <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
 <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->

  <!ENTITY version "1.2">
  <!ENTITY app "<command>KMyMoney</command>">
  <!ENTITY cvs "<command>CVS</command>">
  <!ENTITY ac "<command>autoconf</command>">
  <!ENTITY am "<command>automake</command>">
  <!ENTITY GPG "<command>GPG</command>">
  <!ENTITY cvs-host "kmymoney2.cvs.sourceforge.net">
  <!ENTITY cvs-anonuser "anonymous">
  <!ENTITY cvs-user "<emphasis>username</emphasis>">
  <!ENTITY cvs-dir "/cvsroot/kmymoney2">
  <!ENTITY cvs-module "kmymoney2">

  <!ENTITY config-management SYSTEM "cfg-mgmt.docbook">
  <!ENTITY release-management SYSTEM "rel-mgmt.docbook">
  <!ENTITY coding-standards SYSTEM "coding.docbook">
  <!ENTITY creating-dialogs SYSTEM "dialogs.docbook">
  <!ENTITY translation-hints SYSTEM "translation.docbook">
  <!ENTITY error-management SYSTEM "error-mgmt.docbook">
  <!ENTITY cvs-examples SYSTEM "cvs-examples.docbook">
  <!ENTITY src-examples SYSTEM "src-examples.docbook">
  <!ENTITY unit-test SYSTEM "unit-test.docbook">
  <!ENTITY test-examples SYSTEM "test-examples.docbook">
  <!ENTITY rpm-example SYSTEM "rpm-example.docbook">
  <!ENTITY documentation SYSTEM "documentation.docbook">
  <!ENTITY submissions SYSTEM "submissions.docbook">
  <!ENTITY settings SYSTEM "settings.docbook">
  <!ENTITY licence SYSTEM "licence.docbook">
  <!ENTITY fdl-licence SYSTEM "fdl-licence">
]>

<book id="phb" lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>&kappname; Project Handbook</title>
<subtitle>Version &version;</subtitle>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<honorific>Dipl.Ing</honorific>
<firstname>Thomas</firstname>
<surname>Baumgart</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>ipwizard@users.sourceforge.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<author>
<firstname>Michael</firstname>
<surname>Edwardes</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>mte@users.sourceforge.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2001</year>
<year>2002</year>
<year>2005</year>
<year>2008</year>
<holder>Thomas Baumgart</holder>
<holder>Michael Edwardes</holder>
<holder>Alvaro Soliverez</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>
<para>
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with
no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts. A copy of the license is included in the appendix entitled
<link linkend="licence">"GNU Free Documentation License"</link>.
</para>
</legalnotice>

<date>22.06.2010</date>
<releaseinfo>3.98.1</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
As for any software development project, certain rules regulate the
development process of &app;. These rules cover things like coding
standards, configuration management and error reporting, just to name a few.
The focus of this document is on configuration management and coding
standards. More
information about the &app; project can be found on the
<ulink url="http://kmymoney.org/">project's hompage</ulink>.
</para>
<para>
If you have any comments to raise about this document please send an email
to <email>kmymoney2-developer@lists.sourceforge.net</email>,
the project's developer mailing list and we will try to rectify it. 

Please note that the most up-to-date version of this document can be
found in the source tree and is online on the
<ulink url="http://kmymoney.org/">project's homepage</ulink>.
A <ulink url="http://kmymoney.org/phb/kmymoney-phb.pdf">PDF
version</ulink> is also available for download.
</para>

<para>
A prerequisite for this document is a basic understanding on the work with
&cvs;. Even though this document covers some of the more special topics of
&cvs; in more detail it is not intended as an introduction to &cvs; in general.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KMyMoney</keyword>
<keyword>kmymoney</keyword>
<keyword>finance</keyword>
<keyword>accounts</keyword>
<keyword>accounting</keyword>
<keyword>financial</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<!--
<dedication>
<para>
The dedication will show up here!
<para>
</dedication>

-->

<preface id="versionhistory">
<title>History of this document</title>
<para>
This chapter contains a list of releases of this document. Each entry in this
list contains a date, an author and a short description and possibly a
release number.

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>2001-11, Thomas Baumgart, Rev 0.1</term>
<listitem>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>
Initial work on the project handbook goes back into November 2001.
Unfortunately, the only history information is available in &cvs;.
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>2005-09-18, Thomas Baumgart, Rev 1.0</term>
<listitem>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Added chapter about <link linkend="translation">translation</link>
provided by J. Rundholz.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Added this version history</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>2006-09-11, Thomas Baumgart, Rev 1.1</term>
<listitem>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Added chapter about <link linkend="documentation">documentation</link>
provided by Tom Browder.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>2008-01-31, Alvaro Soliverez, Rev 1.2</term>
<listitem>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Added chapter about <link linkend="submissions">submissions</link></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Added chapter about <link linkend="settings">settings</link></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</para>
</preface>
&config-management;
&release-management;
&coding-standards;
&creating-dialogs;
&settings;
&unit-test;
&documentation;
&submissions;
&translation-hints;
&error-management;
&cvs-examples;
&src-examples;
&test-examples;
&rpm-example;
&licence;
</book>
