<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter id="introduction">
<chapterinfo>
  <date
>2024-12-01</date>
  <releaseinfo
>5.2.0</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>
<title
>Introduction</title>

<sect1 id="what-is-kmymoney"
><title
>Qu'est-ce que &kmymoney; ?</title>
<para
>&kmymoney; is a personal finance manager by &kde;. It enables users to keep careful track of their personal finances by providing a broad array of financial features and tools. </para>

<para
>Les principaux projets de ce projet sont : </para>

<itemizedlist>
  <listitem>
    <formalpara
><title
>Parité de fonctionnalités</title>
      <para
>&kmymoney; a pour but de proposer toutes les fonctionnalités importantes trouvées dans les gestionnaires de finances personnelles commerciaux disponibles. Même si chaque version de &kmymoney; se rapproche de ce but, il y a encore beaucoup de travail à faire. </para>
    </formalpara>
  </listitem>

  <listitem>
    <formalpara
><title
>Facilité d'utilisation</title>
      <para
>&kmymoney; essaye d'être le gestionnaire de finances personnelles libre le plus simple à utiliser, en particulier pour un utilisateur non-expérimenté. </para>
    </formalpara>
  </listitem>

  <listitem>
    <formalpara
><title
>Exactitude</title>
      <para
>Based on tried and tested double entry accounting principles, &kmymoney; ensures that your finances are kept in correct order. </para>
    </formalpara>
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="what-kmymoney-is-not"
><title
>Qu'est-ce que &kmymoney; n'est pas </title>
<para
>As a personal finance manager, &kmymoney; is not intended to support the needs of a business. A small business might find sufficient functionality to use &kmymoney;, but features such as accounts-receivable and accounts-payable are not directly supported. The larger the business, the less likely it is to find &kmymoney; will meet its financial management needs. Most if not all the data needed for a small business, such as for reports for audit and taxation purposes is present, but may need to be extracted using various reports and then processed and assembled into the required formats. In addition, it would be possible to create client, supplier, document, or other features through plugins. </para>

<para
>&kmymoney; is not simply a clone of any of the commercially available personal finance programs. Although many of the features present in &kmymoney; can be found in other similar applications, &kmymoney; strives to present an individual and unique view of your finances. </para>

</sect1>
</chapter>
